# TissueSegmentationGUI
GUI for segmenting optical scans of ablated tissue

## Usage
The segmentation GUI can be used to create segmented masks from optical scans of ablated tissue. Scanned slices of tissue can be segmented automatically using a threshold, or manually via MATLAB's built in polygonal ROI creation tool. Tissue masks are then stored as 2D binary matrices where 1 indicates an ablated pixel, and 0 indicates an unablated pixel. These masks can then be collated and interpolated into a 3D mask using nearest neighbor, linear, spline or pchip interpolation. 
### Starting the GUI
On the main GUI page you will be presented with multiple inputs in which you will enter the geometry information of the 2D volumes as well as the parameters for the optical scans. Clicking 'Lock' will lock those parameters for the given trial and allow you to move onto the next stage of the GUI. 
### Adding data to the GUI
Press the select folder button and select a folder with the tissue scans you wish to segment. They will be loaded into memory and accessible via the drop down under the folder selection button. Navigating to a different scan can be done by selecting a file in this drop down. Enter the trial number in the edit field, this will deterimine the filename of the output files. 
### Positioning
The GUI allows for translating and rotating the optical scan. The image can be translated via the two sliders on the side of the axes on the main window. Rotation is in the lowest panel of the GUI. Positive numbers will rotate clockwise, negative numbers will rotate counterclockwise. 
Once the tissue is aligned with the markers on the main axes change the slice number parameter to the desired slice number and press 'Crop and Save' to add it to the array of tissue images for further processing. 
Once a mask has been saved from a previous slice, the option to overlay the mask, image and a contour of the image will become available on the bottom of this screen. This can be helpful in positioning the next slices. Adjusting the threshold slider will change the contour threshold. Adjusting the transparency slider will change the transparency of the overlaid previous slice. The slice to overlay can be selected with the drop down. 
### Segmentation
Once an image has been saved it can be segmented by going to the second tab group. Select the target slice via the dropdown on this page and click the 'draw rectangle' button to create a rectangular region around the ablated tissue. This will be used to define a contour around the ablated tissue. Adjust the threshold slider to adjust this contour. You can also adjust contrast if it is helpful in determining the ablation region. From here, if the contour is aligned well with the actual segmented tissue, you can click the 'auto draw ROI’ button to create a polygonal region around the largest continuous contour. The number of points this automatic contour creates is determined by the granularity field, which determines the distance between points in pixels that each vertex should be drawn. Higher numbers will have fewer points. This region can be adjusted by clicking and dragging a vertex. Once satisfied with the polygon ROI double click to finalize it.  If the contour has poor coherence with the actual ablated tissue you can use the manual roi drawing tool. Draw an ROI around the ablated tissue and double click to finalize the mask. 
### Create 3D mask
Once all slices have been segmented you can create a 3D mask by going to the 3rd tab group: "3D visualization". On this screen there are two axes which provide a graphical representation of the locations of each slice along the elevation direction. White lines indicate the location of the slice, and the red dot is the location of the needle tip. Enter the geometry in the edit fields in the panel on the bottom of the page. Verify that the geometry is accurate using the "preview" button after entering all the relevant parameters. Once you are satisfied with the geometry, select a smoothing sigma (sigma of a gaussian used to smooth the 3D mask) the distance between slices and an interpolation method. Next click the "Create mask" button. Once it has processed the mask it will display some quantities computed from the final mask in the panel. 

## Internals
On the backend of the GUI there is a matlab class which handles all computations via an interface defined within the class. The class itself can be used without the GUI. Documentation in progress. 
